    Employee churn can be defined as a leak or departure of an intellectual asset from a company or organization. or in simple words, you can say, when employees leave the organization is known as churn. another definition can be when a member of a population leaves a population, which is known as churn. In Research, it was found that employee churn will be affected by age, tenure, pay, job satisfaction, salary, working conditions, growth potential, and employee perceptions of fairness. Some other variables such as age, gender, ethnicity, education, and marital status, were essential factors in the prediction of employee churn. In some cases such as the employee with a niche, skills are harder to replace. It affects the ongoing work and productivity of existing employees. Acquiring new employees as a replacement has its own costs like hiring costs and training costs Also, the new employee will take time to learn skills at a similar level of technical or business expertise knowledge as an older employee. Organizations tackle this problem by applying machine learning techniques to predict employee churn, which helps them in taking necessary actions.

    The following points help you to understand, employee and customer churn in a better way:
    • The business chooses the employee to hire someone while in marketing you don’t get to choose your customers.
    • Employees will be the face of your company, and collectively, the employees produce everything your company does.
    • Losing a customer affects revenues and brand image. acquiring new customers is difficult and costly compared to retaining existing customers. Employee churn is also painful for companies in organizations. It requires time and effort to find and train a replacement. Employee churn has unique dynamics compared to customer churn. It helps us in designing better employee retention plans and improving employee satisfaction. Data science algorithms can predict future churn


    Precision: Precision is about being precise i.e. How precise your model is. In other words, you can say, when a model makes a prediction, how often it is correct. In your prediction case, when your Gradient Boosting model predicted an employee is going to leave, that employee actually left 95% time.

    Recall: If there is an employee who actually left present in the test set and your Gradient Boosting model is able to identify it 92% of the time.
.....
